Right form of verbs প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ তোমাদের জন্য ইংরেজি ২য় পত্রের ১ নম্বর প্রশ্ন, অর্থাৎ Right form of verbs নিয়ে আলোচনা করব। এই প্রশ্নে মোট ৫টি শূন্যস্থানসংবলিত একটি Passage (with clue/ without clue) দেওয়া থাকবে এবং নম্বর থাকবে ৫। Complete the passage with suitable verbs from the list. Put them in the correct tenses. Use the negatives where necessary. 5 Set-3: implement-come-require-engage- remain-imply-consider It is high time we (a) - our brain in thinking about the curse of dowry. The issues of dowry and oppression of women have to be (b) - in view of country’s socio-economic, cultural, political etc. circumstances. United efforts (c) - to put an end to violence against women. A specific framework must be drawn up to be (d) -. Anyway, we can hope that dowry system (e) - to an end in near future. Ans. (a) engaged (b) considered (c) are required (d) implemented (e) will come. Set-4: Be-reach-work-come-confine-dominate-succeed Today women play an important role in all spheres of life. Once they were (a) - by men. They (b) - no longer (c) - within the four walls. They have (d) - out of kitchens and are (e) - hand in hand with man. Ans. try yourself. Set-5: result-add-enjoy-take-be-fall-reduce Since the people of Bangladesh do not possess knowledge of health and (a) - much health care, malnutrition (b) - to the sufferings of the people. Most of the children of Bangladesh (c) - deprived of enough calories from the food (d) - by them. Lack of vitamin A (e) - in the eye-sight of many children. Ans. (a) do not take (b) adds (c) are (d) enjoyed (e) results. Set-6: Dare-desire-attain-be-may-should-assist Everyone (a) - success in life but very few can (b) - it. One of the main reasons for his failure is that many people (c) - take risks. We must remember that life (d) - not a bed of roses. It is full of troubles and problems. We (e) - face them with courage. Ans. Try yourself. Set-7: read-think-weep-say-torture-pray-go One day while I (a) - newspaper sitting in my room, a woman with her little baby in her lap came to me (b) -. I could not recognize her first, and she introduced herself and complained against her husband (c) - that she severely (d) - by him. I heard everything and advised her (e) - to the court. Ans. (a) was reading (b) weeping (c) saying (d) had been tortured (e) to go. Set-8: See-lean-blow-want-cast-screen-lower Robert Frost (a) - any severance of his with nature. Even when the window sash (b) - at night and the tree (c) -from his view he (d) - a shadow outline of the tree which (e) - a more profound influence over him than the rustling of leaves. Ans. Try yourself. # বাকি অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল সহকারী অধ্যাপক, ঢাকা স্টেট কলেজ
