Right form of verbs প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ ইংরেজি ২য় পত্রের ১ নম্বর প্রশ্ন, Right form of verbs নিয়ে আলোচনা করব। এই প্রশ্নে মোট ৫টি শূন্যস্থানসংবলিত একটি Passage (with clue/ without clue) দেওয়া থাকবে এবং নম্বর থাকবে ৫। Q. Complete the passage with suitable verbs from the list. Put them in the correct tenses. Use the negatives where necessary. 5 Set-9: display-ruin-play-maintain-join- juxtapose-force-become Undeniably, student politics (a) - a heroic role in our history for many years. However, it (b) - just a weapon of fulfilling some people’s self-interests only. It is also common knowledge in the universities that many reluctant students have to (c) - student wings of political parities just for getting a seat in the dormitory. They even (d) - to engage in serious party activities. Tales of brilliant students, careers being (e) - due to contemporary brand of student politics are also common place. Ans. (a) has been playing (b) has become (c) join (d) are forced (e) ruined. Set-10: wish-achieve-write-be-apprentice-read-feel When he left school, Shakespeare was (a) - to a butcher. The school he attended is thought to have (b) - at Stratford. Shakespeare (c) - both name and fortune in London. His greatest plays (d) - on the stage towards the end of his life. One can not believe that anyone (e) - to disturb Shakespeare’s remains after his death. Ans. (a) apprenticed (b) been (c) achieved (d) were written (e) wishes. Set-11: take-pray-offer-keep-do-publish-remain With extreme competition everywhere parents are constantly worried about the results. This is a common sight during the SSC examinations in thousands of families. Special prayers (a) - in families having such an examinee. Parents (b) - special care of their children. They make sure that their wards get along with studies without the slightest of problems even without mosquito bites. Parents shuttle to mazars and temples and (c) - for the examinees. Sometimes they give cash money and kinds for their wards. Parents of an examinee usually (d) -worried until the result (e) -. Ans. (a) are offered (b) take (c) pray (d) remain (e) is published. Set-12: walk-get-run-reach-sit-buy-open Last Friday I went to the zoo with some of my friends. We (a) - there before the gate (b) -. Then we (c) - some tickets and entered the zoo. While we (d) -, I saw my friend Raihan (e) - towards us. Ans. (a) reached (b) was opened (c) bought (d) were walking (e) running. Set-13: do-get-beg-want-write-receive-choose I (a) - your letter just now. You (b) - to know where I (c) - myself admitted and which subjects I (d) -. I am now (e) --- everything in detail. Ans. (a) have got/have received (b) have wanted (c) have got/shall get (d) have chosen/will choose (e) writing. # বাকি অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল সহকারী অধ্যাপক, ঢাকা স্টেট কলেজ, ঢাকা
