Right form of verbs প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ ইংরেজি ২য় পত্রের ১ নম্বর প্রশ্ন, Right form of verbs নিয়ে আলোচনা করব। এই প্রশ্নে মোট ৫টি শূন্যস্থানসংবলিত একটি Passage (with clue/ without clue) দেওয়া থাকবে এবং নম্বর থাকবে ৫। Q. Complete the passage with suitable verbs from the list. Put them in the correct tenses. Use the negatives where necessary. 5 Set-14: say-be-provide-enrich-face-participate Human life (a) - not static but dynamic. A man can not reach the highest peak of success if he (b) - in extra co-curricular activities. Traveling is also an important part of co-curricular activities. It is traveling which (c) - our knowledge, experience and promotes our attitudes. Therefore, traveling (d) - us with knowledge and practical experience. It can be clearly (e) - that our knowledge can be mobilized by traveling that different corners of the vast globe. Ans. (a) is (b) does not participate (c) enriches (d) provides (e) said. Set-15: write-reach-happen-Come- do-twinkle-return At last your long awaited letter (a) - us yesterday. You can hardly imagine how I jumped for joy and how mummy’s eyes (b) - with delight. When papa (c) - home in the evening and we told him that you (d) - very well in your mid-term examination he, too, was very pleased. So you may be sure of a very warm welcome when you (e) - here for Christmas. Ans. (a) reached (b) twinkled (c) returned (d) had done (e) will come. Set-16: feel-lead-make-Inspire- create-imply-devote Patriotism is a noble virtue. It (a) - a man to do everything just and fair for his country and people. Actually it (b) -those qualities which makes a person (c) - his/her life for the well being of his country. Patriotic zeal (d) - a person dutiful, energetic and enthusiastic. On other hand, those devoid of patriotic zeal (e) - any scruple to plot against the country. Ans. (a) inspires (b) implies (c) devote (d) makes (e) do not feel. Set-17: begin-say-hold-bid-call-invite-recite A few days ago the marriage ceremony of my elder sister was (a) - in a very befitting manner. We (b) - our friends and relatives. The invited guests (c) - to come in the evening. After the arrival of the bridegroom the Qazi Solemnized the marriage (d) - the related verses from the Holy Quran. While (e) - farewell to my sister my parents burst into tears. Ans. (a) held (b) invited (c) began (d) reciting (e) bidding. সহকারী অধ্যাপক ঢাকা স্টেট কলেজ, ঢাকা
